{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13440\viewh7800\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
dadjesse@aol.com\
Mon, Feb 17, 2020, 9:41 AM\
to Dadjesse\
\
Carnal versus Spiritual\
 \
\'93For to be carnally minded is death; but to be spiritually minded is life and peace.\'94  Romans 8.6\
 \
This is a great verse that is used and misused quite often. The verse is true, but must be understood in truth.   This topic is all about how one sees herself.  Do you think you\'92re a \'93sinner saved by grace?\'94  That phrase is not used in the bible, although used quite often in church pulpits and other \'93Christian\'94 places.  Or are you a \'93person saved by grace?\'94  Or, are you now a saint?  Now the term \'93saint\'94 is used many, many times in the New Testament to describe and define the Christian.  But, we are never described or defined as \'93sinners\'94.\
 \
This is how we misunderstand the meaning of \'93carnally minded\'94.  So, what happens is that this verse is interpreted as, basically either a warning to the Christian or as a method to condemn others or ourselves.  Inotherwords, are we Christian people thinking \'93carnal\'94 thoughts \'96 being \'93carnally minded\'94?  Well, what if that is not what this verse means at all.  It says \'93to be carnally minded is death \'85\'94 Well, we\'92re not in death at all \'96 we\'92re in life.  Perhaps this verse is not about thinking \'93sinful thoughts\'94 but rather thinking that you are a \'93sinful person\'94.  Maybe, to be \'93carnally minded\'94 means that you don\'92t understand who you are.\
 \
More on that in Part II\
\
}