{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13440\viewh7800\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
Linda Bunting <b13984@iglou.com>\
Oct 18, 2020, 9:43 AM\
to Linda, Gary, DeeDee, me, Paula, John\
\
Sound familiar Gary B,?\
\
Begin forwarded message:\
\
From: "Linda Bunting" <b13984@iglou.com>\
Subject: Re: BREAKING NEWS. THE HOLY SPIRITS RETURN.\
Date: May 22, 2015 at 8:24:52 AM EDT\
To: "Bill Oberdorf" <wjoberdorf@cox.net>\
Cc: "Steve Hodge" <drshodge@aol.com>, "Harriet Wearren" <hwearren@att.net>, "Dee Dee Winter" <dd.winter44@gmail.com>, "John Bunting" <jb13984@iglou.com>, "Donna Brenzel" <brenzel@bellsouth.net>, "Kathy Orr" <Kathyorr4602@gmail.com>\
\
 Bill, \
\
Thank you for the Spirits' Amen .... We will be at war with the Christians who want Jesus after the flesh.\
\
If the very men who lived in the flesh with him, and Paul who never knew him that way, could not KNOW Him accept by His Spirit, why do we think we are any different?\
The teachings have made Jesus a person of history to be worshiped but never taught as the risen Christ as themselves. \
\
The Revelation of the Holy Spirit has been taught at the milk level.\
\
The meat of the gospel is the Holy Spirit Indwelling, not only as a helper, but as the one who raised us from the dead to live as Christ in our individual forms.  \
\
More later,\
\
Thankful for your wisdom and insight. \
\
Linda\
\
\
On May 21, 2015, at 8:10 PM, Bill Oberdorf wrote:\
\
Linda,\
\
Thanks so much for the anointed and spiritually inspired "word"!\
\
May you and John have a wonderful Memorial Day weekend.  \
\
We love you both and count ourselves blessed to be your friends and fellow members of the House which He is building.....that House composed of "living stones"!\
\
Love and blessings,\
\
Bill and Betty Oberdorf\
\
Sent from my iPad\
\
On May 20, 2015, at 3:05 PM, Linda Bunting <b13984@iglou.com> wrote:\
\
\
\
 \
Subject: Fwd: BREAKING NEWS. THE HOLY SPIRITS RETURN.\
\
From: Linda Bunting <b13984@iglou.com>\
Date: May 20, 2015 1:14:23 PM EDT\
To: Linda Bunting <b13984@iglou.com>, Harriet Wearren <hwearren@att.net>\
\
Subject: BREAKING NEWS. THE HOLY SPIRITS RETURN.\
\
          Pentecost! May 24th.\
\
                Jesus is NOT coming back TO Temples made with hands\
      because He has already returned IN Temples NOT made with hands!!!\
\
Has our attention been so set on the return of the Jesus of history that we have missed the Universal Holy Spirit of Christ who came back at Pentecost to indwell His own physical bodies as us?  \
\
When Jesus said "I must leave you," He meant it! The human Jesus knew he could NOT be our life, but if he left, He could come back in His 3rd form to live again in the many.\
\
Do we daily deny the Holy Spirit's life dwelling in us? Do we cut Him off by not accepting that He is our life? Unforgivable!! \
\
And is that not what Pentecost is all about, that Supreme event in human history where the risen Christ sends forth His Holy Spirit to inhabit the lives of the redeemed to cause us to be what we were created to be and could not be without.\
Do we not  know that "For me to live is Christ"!\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}