{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13440\viewh7800\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Date: January 15, 2014 at 4:02:33 AM EST\
To: "Noel Miranda" <nljmdc@gmail.com>\
Cc: "Harriet Wearren" <hwearren@att.net>, "John Bunting" <jb13984@iglou.com>, "Dee Dee Winter" <dd.winter44@gmail.com>, "Fred Pruitt" <fhpjrrom@gmail.com>, "John Collings" <travelernx@gmail.com>\
\
Dear Noel,\
\
Now you hit the nail on the head ... as we say; \
\
No, my dear we are not compelled to surrender self. We are compelled to take ''by faith" that we are DEAD TO the SELF THAT WAS MISUSED BY SATAN.\
\
We are compelled to take by faith that we were crucified with Christ. Paul speaks ... present tense in Gal. 2:20 "I am crucified with Christ. " Nevertheless, I live,".... Yet not I, but Christ lives in me, .... and the life I NOW LIVE, I live by the faith OF GOD, who lived and died for me. SO NOW WE ARE FREE TO BE. No more worrying about dying to self, living for self, our selves are FREE . \
Now everything about the human is NEW, New reasons for living because instead of us working the cross, the cross works us.\
And He lives as us. Faith works us. \
So, it takes plenty of faith to believe that.\
Are you familiar with the man Rees Howells. One of the great moments in his life was when the Spirit came to him 3 times to ask him if he was willing to give up self. Being an honest man, he finally had to admit he could not do it. Because each time he tried, he failed.\
At last he admitted ... he could not. That is when the Spirit said to him, "Then are you willing to be made willing." Oh yes he cried and freedom came to completely rely on Him \
That's the life.!!!\
Living in and as Him. That required no work accept the faith to believe it and even when we believe not, He abides faithful for He cannot deny Himself.: 11 Tim.\
So dear friend, relax.\
The old doctrines have beaten to death, '"surrender to self" and failed to recognize that the self died and rose anew in Christ Jesus.\
That same Spirit that got Jesus out of a grave lives in us.\
So stop surrendering to self and begin to appreciate your new self that is completely made one with Christ and it is He living the new life as you.\
that is why you can say along with many others, I am Christ in my form.\
A form of the very Godhead.\
Let me hear,\
Lovingly,\
Linda\
He \
\
\
 \
 \
\
\
\
\
On Jan 15, 2014, at 3:23 AM, Noel Miranda wrote:\
\
Dear Linda,\
\
I must go back to this email of yours, and thank you.  For through your message I did see that I missed the fundamental message about faith, and failed to emphasize that faith is the foundation of our full enlightenment in Christ.  Thus, I rewrote a significant portion of the messages- avoiding messages that may mislead readers to believe that earnest works alone gets us to becoming Christ.  Again, I thank you for pointing this out. \
\
I do believe that faith should not be "dead"- that is, with True Faith we are compelled to surrender self to full dependence on God's grace, and that by grace we shall be driven to seek, to find, to die to self, to be resurrected, and to become the way, the truth and the life for others.\
\
I would appreciate sharing with you the revised copy, but I would like to first seek your willingness to receive it.\
\
In any case, my Christ love remains,\
Noel\
 \
\
On Mon, Jan 13, 2014 at 6:36 PM, Linda Bunting <b13984@iglou.com> wrote:\
Noel,\
\
I could not read your book because, early on, I sensed an attitude of 'becoming' in it. \
We do not and cannot live out of the knowledge of anything. We do not become by learning.\
A leap of faith into the person of Christ is the only way the self is redeemed from the spirit of error which indwelt us. Once we take that leap of faith into HIM the spirit of error goes out of us and the spirit of God is born in us. \
It doesn't take learning to do that. Don't misunderstand me, learning does have its place but it can only lead to the end of 'trying' to get there. BEING IS A PERSON. \
We are the containers of that person in our own personhood. \
Temptation becomes the vehicle by which we are settled into the reality that we are ONE with God and He is living as us.\
I hope we stay in touch. \
Lovingly in Jesus,\
Linda\
\
\
\
\
On Jan 12, 2014, at 3:58 PM, Noel Miranda wrote:\
\
Dear Linda,\
\
May I request that you replace the first attachment with this, dated Jan 13.  Thank you.\
Noel\
\
\
On Sun, Jan 12, 2014 at 9:18 PM, Noel Miranda <nljmdc@gmail.com> wrote:\
Dear Linda,\
\
By this email I wish to present to you the draft of the Book-Journal:  Living by Absolute Truth as Sons of God- as CHRIST!\
\
My request to you is for you to kindly read this book (attached here).  And whatever God impresses onto you- I would appreciate knowing.\
\
You are the first person outside my immediate family to be able to read these spiritual expressions- that makes you the second person.  \
\
For now I would like to keep this book just for your reading first.\
\
Thank you for still believing.\
\
In CHRIST,\
Noel\
\
\
\
\
--\
Noel L.J. Miranda\
One Health and Disaster Resilience/Security\
\
<Faith to Truth_Book_13Jan14.pdf>\
\
\
\
\
--\
Noel L.J. Miranda\
One Health and Disaster Resilience/Security\
\
\
\
}