{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13440\viewh7800\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 From: Linda Bunting <b13984@iglou.com>\
Subject: Re: Today\'92s My Utmost, Oswald Chambers\
Date: September 18, 2021 at 10:56:23 AM EDT\
To: robert hodge <drrwh@hotmail.com>\
Cc: "Kate P. Hodge" <kph2848@icloud.com>\
\
To me, THE SON provided the high road of weakness, having spent 40 days and nights without food or drink, being brought to the point of death, by taking the Devil\'92s temptations  and being rescued by His Brilliant word of faith. Temptation, rightly used becomes the remedy to our being fixed in who we are as a son! Jesus had no self helps in that barren desert! A wilderness , if you will. \
\
When I went there, I purposely did not get off the bus! I did not want to be hounded by \'92sellers\'92 of scarves and book marks.\
What I saw in my spirit was a lonely man, just like me, with nothing or no one to help. \
\
HIS WORD WAS ENOUGH.  WHO He did have was the Holy Spirit who called to mind the words for him to say. \
So, I learned early on, to count it all joy when the temptation came and still do come , not to destroy me, but to prove me\
And bring me home to the One in me that , not only bought my freedom eternally, but came to live in me , present tense\
And to know that I am WHOLE, COMPLETE AND NEEDING NOTHING. James 1.\
\
All my dearest respect ,\
\
Luli\
\
\
\
On Sep 18, 2021, at 6:50 AM, robert hodge <drrwh@hotmail.com> wrote:\
\
His Temptation and Ours\
By Oswald Chambers\
We do not have a High Priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but was in all points tempted as we are, yet without sin. \'97Hebrews 4:15\
Until we are born again, the only kind of temptation we understand is the kind mentioned in James 1:14, \'93Each one is tempted when he is drawn away by his own desires and enticed.\'94 But through regeneration we are lifted into another realm where there are other temptations to face, namely, the kind of temptations our Lord faced. The temptations of Jesus had no appeal to us as unbelievers because they were not at home in our human nature. Our Lord\'92s temptations and ours are in different realms until we are born again and become His brothers. The temptations of Jesus are not those of a mere man, but the temptations of God as Man. Through regeneration, the Son of God is formed in us (see Galatians 4:19), and in our physical life He has the same setting that He had on earth. Satan does not tempt us just to make us do wrong things\'97 he tempts us to make us lose what God has put into us through regeneration, namely, the possibility of being of value to God. He does not come to us on the premise of tempting us to sin, but on the premise of shifting our point of view, and only the Spirit of God can detect this as a temptation of the devil.\
\
Temptation means a test of the possessions held within the inner, spiritual part of our being by a power outside us and foreign to us. This makes the temptation of our Lord explainable. After Jesus\'92 baptism, having accepted His mission of being the One \'93who takes away the sin of the world\'94 (John 1:29) He \'93was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness\'94 (Matthew 4:1) and into the testing devices of the devil. Yet He did not become weary or exhausted. He went through the temptation \'93without sin,\'94 and He retained all the possessions of His spiritual nature completely intact.\
\
\
Sent from my tablet\
\
}