{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13440\viewh7800\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 From: Linda Bunting\
To: travelernx@gmail.com\
Sent: Thursday, April 01, 2010 1:18 PM\
Subject: "The Son of Man"\
\
     Under a clear sky, it is cool when, late that evening, Jesus and his companions slowly make their way back to the Mount of Olives. The noise of the town, keeping high festival, pursues their footsteps, but the disciples heed it not, as they move onward in silence, meditating upon the words of the Master.\
     In him there is a change. Perhaps it is only because the air strikes chill. It may be because of Judas' disappearance, which he cannot fail to have noticed. He may well have an increasingly urgent sense that danger pressing. This much is certain, that, after leaving the town, he grows livelier; his aspect is brisk, and almost combative. Maybe, at this last hour, he considers the possibility of retreat, for he says to the disciples; "When I sent you without purse and script and shoes, lacked ye anything?" "Nothing Master." "But now, he that hath a purse, let him take it, and likewise his script; and he that hath no sword, let him sell his garment, and buy one!" \
     They are startled, as if caught in the act. Some of them have indeed been letting their thoughts run upon the chances of armed resistance. Two among them, emboldened by this remarkable utterance, now venture to draw forth the weapons they have concealed about their persons, saying: "Lord, behold, here are two swords.!" Whereupon he, shrinking back as of old when confronted with such actualities, recognizes at sight of these poor iron tools how contradictory is the use of physical measures of defense when spirit and force, when God and the world, have to measure strength one against the other. He puts from him the fancy he has toyed with for a few seconds, and, with a double meaning, says quietly: \
   "It is enough."\
Thoughts of the nearness of death are persistent. Sometimes he tries to mollify their bitterness by words from scripture. So now, he pauses in the ascent, and says (as if to put his disciples to the test): "All ye shall be offended because of me this night: for it is written, 'I will smite the Shepard, and the sheep of the flock shall be scattered abroad.' "\
As at Caesarea Philippi, Peter, in the ardour of his youthful zeal, is the readiest with a reply: "Though all men shall be offended because of thee, yet will I never be offended!"\
     Jesus looks at Peter sadly. He knows the young man's eagerness, but feels that none of his disciples are to be depended upon -- Peter no more than the rest. He shall be told as much in plain words: "Verily I say unto thee that this night, before the cock crows, thou shalt deny me thrice!"\
     Peter rejoins: "Though I should die with thee, yet will I not deny thee." All the other disciples echo the words.\
     In Jesus, conflicting motives are at work. Is he really to surrender unresistingly to his enemies? His disciples have just given him fresh assurances of loyalty. Some of them are armed. To-night he will not return to Bethany, the first place at which the authorities will look for him. If the vanished Judas be really in the plot, the traitor shall lead the foe thither in vain. Vestiges of combativeness flicker up in Jesus once more. Quitting the high road, he bids the others follow him, and sets out in search of a place of refuge. On this last day of his life, Jesus looks for a hiding place. He does so, without plan, and too late, as he did all things that were done by him in conflict with what is usually called the real world. In the dead of night, they squeeze through the quickset hedge surrounding one of the olive orchards watered by the Brook Cedron on the western slope of the hill -- a cactus hedge, doubtless, for these are burghers' fruit gardens, protected against thieves. \
     At length they are all within the enclosure. To the Master, a man of gentle disposition, such an intrusion into a fenced orchard is a new and disturbing experience, seeing that never before, in all his thirty-one years, has he thrust his way anywhere except into human hearts. \
     Death, whose shape he has hitherto contemplated only through a mist of obscuring pharaseology, now confronts him in hideous nakedness. The brooding stillness of the garden, the aromatic smell of the olives, the sheen of the stars, exercise their dur effect on his emotions. The foretellings of scripture are forgotten, or seem ambiguous. As a natural result of these mingled influences, he is assailed with a burning desire for life. He will beseech the Father to let him live!  He is loath to unveil the confusion of his thoughts and feelings to the whole company of his followers. Drawing apart, therefore, with the three whom he love hest, and leaving the others at rest beneath the trees, he goes on a little way through the gloom. Trembling, afraid to be alone, he says to Peter, James, and John: "My soul is exceeding sorrowful unto death; tarry ye here, and watch!"\
      A few paces farther, and he throws himself on the ground. With forehead and hair bedewed by the herbage, he prays: "Father, all things are possible unto thee! Take away this cup from me! Nevertheless, not what I will, but what thou wilt!" \
     He prays for life. Yet, as a dutiful son, even while doing so he leaves the fianl decision to his Father. Then, in agony of mind, he rises to his feet once more. He has a sense of being tracked down, like one who hears the voices of pursuers; he feels like a hunted beast when the hounds are close at hand. Weak and helpless, a poor mortal in sore distress, he turns back to his dear companions for solace. Will not they open their arms to receive him? \
     He finds them sleeping. James, John, and Peter are all asleep. \
"Simon, sleepest thou? Could'st thou not watch one hour?\
     The disappointments of a lifetime are summed up in these few words. The men who lie there are the most devoted among his followers, the ones to whom he has pourd out his whole heart for a year and more. Now, the first time their friend and master craves aid from his fellow men, and does not lean for support on God alone; when Jesus has been turning over in his mind the enigma of his relation to God -- this is the moment when their senses are dulled by wine and by the darkness. They lie there asleep!\
        Fresh doubts assail the prophet. Is it possible that he has chosen the wrong path? Had it all been a mistake? He could have spent his life in a quiet Galilean township. Where were those to whom he could point as awakened and made happy by his teaching? Simon, whom he had regarded as the rock upon which the faith was to be builded, and whom he had therefore called Peter; Simon was asleep in this hour of greatest need.  John, who so often nestled into his breast like a child, was asleep. Not one of them knew that their friend was yearning for their help. They left him to suffer anguish and terror alone. Perhaps from first to last it had been an illusion? Perhaps the strangers who had listened to his words, and the sick whom he had cured, had long since forgotten his message? Maybe those whose hearts he had hoped to touch, drove the plough or sailed the fishing-smack with the same dull indifference as in the days before Jeusu had crossed their paths? If that and nothing more were the fruit of his gospel, was such a mission worth dying for? "Father, all things are possible unto thee! Take away this cup from me! Nevertheless, not what I will, but what thour wilt!"\
 \
 Taken from "The Son of Man" by Emil Ludwig\
     }