{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia-BoldItalic;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia-Bold;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue229;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c91765;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13440\viewh7800\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 " If through His infinite mercy, you have had a personal experience already of the matters herein written, your heart will be filled with thanksgiving and praise as you read.\'a0 If not, you will find many things strange, and it would not be surprising if you should be ready to pronounce some untrue.\'a0 But beware of being wise in your own conceit!\'a0 The Spirit of God, that searcheth the deep things of God, alone can decide."
\f1\i0\b0 \cb1 \

\f0\i\b \cb3 \'a0 "Do not distrust the reports of these spies whom God has sent before you into the promised land.\'a0 It is a land flowing with milk and honey;\'a0 true, the children of Anak are there, in whose sight we are but as grasshoppers, but they are bread for us.\'a0 The Lord God, He it is that shall fight for us, and He will surely bring us into that exceeding good land."
\f1\i0\b0 \cb1 \

\f0\i\b \cb3 \'a0 "The natural man receiveth not the things of God, for they are foolishness unto him;\'a0 neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned.\'a0 If, then, you have not experienced the things that you find here written, think it not strange that they should seem foolish and false;\'a0 in God's own time they shall be perceived, if you follow on in Him."
\f1\i0\b0 \cb1 \

\f0\i\b \cb3 \'a0 "If you will be advised by one who knows nothing, and who is least in the household of faith, you will deny nothing \'97 reject nothing \'97 despise nothing, lest haply you be found fighting against God; you will receive nothing but what is accompanied by the\'a0
\f2\i0 Amen
\f0\i \'a0of the Spirit of God in your heart;\'a0 all else shall be as the idle wind. \'a0 Reading thus, in absolute dependence, not upon man's wisdom or teaching, but upon the utterances of the blessed Spirit within, you shall infallibly be guided into all Truth.\'a0 Such is the promise of Him who cannot lie. "
\f1\i0\b0 \cb1 \

\f0\i\b \cb3 \'a0 "And may His blessing rest upon you ! "\'a0\'a0
\f1\i0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\qr\partightenfactor0

\f3\i\b\fs18 \cf2 \cb3 James W. Metcalf \'97 1853
\f1\i0\b0\fs24 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \
}