{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13440\viewh7800\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The Tree of Life Redux\
By Fred Pruitt\
\
(1st Note: This is a complete rewrite of a previous article of the same name. It is also the update to what was posted a couple of days ago. What was posted two days ago was a mistake. It was supposed to have been put in the draft bin, but it got published instead. I didn\'92t notice until today that had happened. That version, for those who may have read it, is very similar to this one but this is the complete new article with new material.)\
\
(2nd Note: This may have been first written some time in the mid-2000s, certainly by 2010. The message didn\'92t seem as timely then as it does now. Now the moment is pregnant with timeliness. FP \'96 11/19/21.)\
\
Matthew 24:\
23 Then if any man shall say unto you, Lo, here is Christ, or there; believe it not.\
24 For there shall arise false Christs, and false prophets, and shall show great signs and wonders; insomuch that, if it were possible, they shall deceive the very elect.\
\
Psalm 146 says,\
\
3 Put not your trust in princes, nor in the son of man, in whom there is no help.\
4 His breath goeth forth, he returneth to his earth; in that very day his thoughts perish.\
5 Happy is he that hath the God of Jacob for his help, whose hope is in the LORD his God:\
\
I John 5:19: And we know that we are of God, and the whole world lieth in wickedness. (KJV). 1 John 5:19 We know that we are of God, and that the whole world lies in the power of the evil one. (NASB)\
\
Ephesians 6:12 For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places.\
\
How is it possible to deceive the very elect? Jesus seems to indicate it\'92s almost possible. It\'92s a close call.\
\
For the deception comes in the form of a strong delusion. A delusion is something not true which we believe with all our hearts to be true. It\'92s hard to shake one\'92s self from such a thing. In fact, it is impossible: one must be rescued.\
\
Here is the mark of a delusion. It will claim to represent God, to act as an agent of God, to be a force of goodness, and in making those claims it will draw all attention to itself and have no other gods before it. Nor will it allow any dissent from its claim. It will claim to be the Most High God in one form or another, excluding all others.\
\
How is such a one to be deceived? Here\'92s a real life \'93it-happened-to-me\'94 story.\
\
I think it was during year four or five of what eventually turned out to be seven years. We were having a team meeting in our church basement dining room, led by our Pastor. On my way to the meeting, while walking from the \'93brother\'92s house\'94 from up the street down to the church, I passed Pastor and some others standing on the path having a conversation. I do not remember anymore what their conversation was about, but I had caught a few words walking by. After nearly 50 years I only remember what Pastor said about it later in the meeting.\
\
He began talking about that conversation as soon as we started the meeting. At some point he said something that struck me as completely opposite from remarks I had heard him make outside only a few minutes before. I raised my hand and asked as respectfully as I could, if he could help me clear up my mind about the subject. Which statement did he mean? It is quite possible I came across as impudent or impertinent. I don\'92t know. (Wouldn\'92t have been the first time, and certainly not the last.) Still, I never expected the answer I received. It blew my mind.\
\
Pastor looked at me and said, \'93Rebuke the devil! I did not say that! The devil put that in your mind!\'94\
\
I started to protest but no one ever protested, at least not for long. So, I wimped out and pursued it no further. Neither do I remember \'93rebuking the devil,\'94 afterward. I was simply perplexed. He was telling me to not trust what I know I saw and heard. That was the first part. The second part was worse. I was to ONLY trust what he said.\
\
He didn\'92t say all that in so many words, nor did it articulate in my mind like that back then. Still, the meaning was subtly clear. Had I possessed the capability at the time to bring it out into the light of day and plainly see the prison I was being offered, I might have walked out the door that day. But that was not the Spirit\'92s plan. I was only a little more than half-baked back then, but not done yet! We had to cook some more in the stew. I was thoroughly \'93under\'94 him and others who were on a level between Pastor and me. I had not bucked the system yet. That had to play out in the Spirit\'92s Way. (In most cases once something has been set in motion, it must be allowed to run its course.)\
\
The issue of course was the supposed surrendering of my individual \'93free will.\'94 That day he told me to rebuke the devil and to accept his word that he did not say those things even though I knew he had. It came out into the light long enough that I saw it in its brevity.\
\
That moment was the beginning of the undoing of the spell cast three or four years before. On the first day of our arrival in June of \'9173, we had ignorantly \'93signed on the dotted line,\'94 of accepting the authority of \'93Pastor, who,\'94 our friend told us, was an \'93Apostle.\'94 We didn\'92t know that they even had those anymore. He went on to say that in Christ by the Holy Spirit he, (Pastor) was empowered to continuously teach and protect us from the onslaughts of the enemy. Our \'93part\'94 was to accept the authority of \'93Pastor\'94 and others and by doing so enter into a \'93ministerial training course.\'94\
\
The \'94day\'94 Pastor told me to only trust him and no other, and that what I had witnessed with my eyes and ears, did not happen, was the day the \'93light\'94 began to break through, though it was still a couple of years down the road before it would run its course.\
\
As the ministry began to face different situations and our group spread around throughout the city (whereas before we had been pretty much isolated from the other city residents) we began to see the absurdities of some of the things we had been believing and living. Cuckoo things.\
\
Recently I saw a post repeated on Facebook several times. It is priceless and absolute truth \'96 take it from one who has been down that road \'96 please \'85\
\
It goes like this:\
\
\'93Those who can make you believe absurdities, can make you commit atrocities.\'94\
\
I\'92ve seen this in action. Do not surrender your will to anyone but God, and be certain it is TRULY GOD before you do any surrendering. Never surrender your will in that manner to any other human being. We\'92re not really surrendering anyway. God doesn\'92t MAKE you give up your own will. Instead, He causes us to see, because we are His children and ultimately His visible expressions in the universe, that His will and our \'93will\'94 are one.\
\
But we don\'92t know that in the beginning and are therefore, like children, easily attracted to one thing today and another tomorrow.\
\
How it ran its course is that it was several more years before I could get out from under having surrendered my will early on as \'93required.\'94 In the fullness of time the Spirit stirred things up enough to blow Janis and I out of there and with our three little kids land on the Amtrak headed to Georgia on a fast train! We suffered from a mild case of PTSD and had to take the next year somewhat \'93off\'94 while we regrouped and talked it out with each other and then later with Christian friends with the Cursillo movement in the Episcopal Church. What finally relieved me completely was God\'92s gift of a raised consciousness of Him in me, through a revelation of Galatians 2:20 and Colossians 1:27,28; 3:3, and many others, so that I began to know and believe Who I am, which eventually swallowed up all contrary consciousness of separation, leaving only the pure water of the Spirit, no longer dammed up by our unbelief, and now able and qualified, we flood the countryside with the unlimited bounty of God\'92s goodness.\
\
A delusion does not necessarily come in religious terms. A delusion can be anything from an addiction to a drug to an addiction to a person. Or a set of ideas, or doctrines. Or a geopolitical position. Anything which is not God. Idolatry is another word for it. Independent self is another word for it. Hyper patriotism set on eradicating evil is one of its best and most insidious disguises.\
\
Everyday the world presents its delusions on parade before our eyes. The lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, the pride of life. All marched before us trying to get our attention all day every day, \'93Hey, look at us, Hey we\'92re over here. Hey, WE\'92RE THE REAL STUFF!\'94\
\
It\'92s easy to get pulled aside and believe their stories. They are so convincing. Everybody has one, and everybody\'92s seems to be right.\
\
Both sides of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil have their points. Their justifications. The good side seems to score more points but if you see under its leaves the same trunk holds up both sides. (Nevertheless, that does not mean it is futile or pointless to seek to \'93do good.\'94 Remember, he who gives a drink of water to a prophet shall have a prophet\'92s reward. Matt 10:40-42)\
\
The kingdoms of men will fail. All of them. Some may fail soon, some later, but they will all fail. If you don\'92t believe the Bible believe history.\
\
Therefore, we cannot have our ultimate trust in them.\
\
I am not preaching rebellion toward authority. We submit to and participate in legitimate authority as conscience and the Spirit dictate. But we do not have our trust in them. If we do, then we are under a strong delusion and worshipping a false god.\
\
Our trust is in the Living God only. Only. We are in the world \'97 we live in it, participate in its joys and sorrows, take part in its commerce, deal with its issues daily \'97 but we are not of it.\
\
Meaning that at some point we make the jump from the devil\'92s tree and its conflicts and issues and rights and wrongs and ostentatious shows at proving who is more righteous and who is more evil, every side calling upon the name of their God to justify their cause, whether it be Moses, Jesus or Allah, Capitalism or Communism, Crusaders or Infidels, Yankees and Confederates, all claim God on their side, all claim to be the moral ones.\
\
What do we do? The Spirit says, \'93Wherefore come out from among them, and be ye separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing; and I will receive you.\'94  (2 Cor 6:17).\
\
Therefore, we make the jump out of the fray into the Tree of Life.\
\
(Note: Understand I am speaking of an inner consciousness rather than a physical move. I\'92m not advocating leaving one group and joining up with another in order to be \'93separate,\'94 even though some might be moved that way. The inner consciousness jump is the real meat. The form it takes is secondary, with a universe full of possibilities.)\
\
The Tree of Life is simply this:\
\
Micah 6:8 He hath showed thee, O man, what is good; and what doth the LORD require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God?\
\
To do justly \'97 i.e. to judge righteous judgement, and not according to appearances, to see with the single eye, God all in all, and to walk in the world according to that sight. \'93A false balance is abomination to the LORD: but a just weight is his delight.\'94 (Prov 11:1)*. Having no self to protect in Him, no need to hedge our bets or tip the scales. Let your yea be yea, and your nay be nay. Anything beyond that is prevarication. In contemporary terms, it\'92s called \'93spin!\'94 *In other words, one who uses a false balance or tips the scales is a cheater and a thief.\
\
To love mercy \'97 \'93I will have mercy more than sacrifice.\'94 It was \'93scriptural\'94 to stone the adulterous woman. The actual right thing to do. Jesus didn\'92t do the right thing, but that which mercy required. Joseph acted in the same Spirit when he decided not to put Mary away, before he knew the Truth. Even though the Law proclaimed a woman who gets pregnant outside of marriage to be akin to a harlot and worthy of stoning, Joseph chose mercy instead. The Spirit of God in us produces His mercy and grace in us toward ourselves and others. Because when we are living in the Tree of Life the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil has no power there. Goodness and Mercy follow us because they are the gentle fire of the Spirit of God burning in us, that sees the light of Christ in all His still imprisoned brethren, and seeks only their deliverance, never their destruction!\
\
To walk humbly with thy God \'96 \'93I live yet not I but Christ liveth,\'94 is damnation to some who become enamored with themselves as if they were THE Christ and seek to appropriate Christ for their own gain and to be rulers over others. However, to those who have lost all, left all and forsaken all, not because they were so good at it but because they failed so miserably at it and gave up the ghost and laid down to die, they have become the perfect sacrifice (Rom 12:1). It is the sacrifice of those who has been bound \'93with cords\'94 to the horns of the altar, who have discovered that \'93when I am weak then am I strong,\'94 the Deliverer comes and comforts them, and rises up in them, and they walk in divine strength, not human strength, and work the works of God.\
\
Do not consider how this could be. Just stand up and take the next step. Or speak the next step.\
\
John 6\
28 Then said they unto him, What shall we do, that we might work the works of God?\
29  Jesus answered and said unto them, This is the work of God, that ye believe on Him Whom He hath sent.\
\
He hath sent Him into you that the Love of God might be shed abroad by the Holy Ghost which is given unto you, and that you might walk in the Spirit of the Lord, expressing \'93love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith,\
meekness, temperance: against such there is no law.\'94\
\
Believe on Him Whom He hath sent \'97 into you, to be the you, that you are.\
\
People may misinterpret what I have written above a thousand different ways I suppose. Some may see what I have written as a cop out and a refusal to take a stand in world issues. Head-in-sand-hiding. By all means, take stands. Sometimes we must. Just be in them, but not of them.\
\
For we do not seek a continuing city in this world. We will not find it. No refuge or safe place. We are strangers and pilgrims, restless in wandering through the dry deserts of the kingdoms of men. We look for a city which HAS eternal foundations, whose builder and maker is God. We are given the earnest of the Spirit to seal us with Him. Therefore, we occupy until He comes, living in the foretaste of the city we have been given, the inward Reality of the Spirit, our True Home, the down-payment of our inheritance. O but we still long to be clothed with the heavenly city!\
\
So let us not lose sight of the goal. God is building a City. We are the very stones of the buildings. Each of us is fitted in place as a perfect stone, built on the foundation of Christ and the apostles and prophets before us, whom we now join, not setting our affections on the things of the earth, but on the things of the Spirit. We know surely that this world is as grass which passes away and is no more, and yet we love the world, too, as God loves the world, and because we are in the world but not of it, we can walk in this world as His temple and Body, bearing about His sufferings, His birth-pangs, reconciling the world unto Him in our mortal bodies which are perishing day by day even as our inward man is renewed, for we are dead, and our life is hid with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall we also appear with him in glory. This is both now and then.\
\
To eyes that see, He appears now, and is also yet to come.\
\
Revelation 1:8 I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, saith the Lord, which is, and which was, and which is to come, the Almighty.Life}